Refresh old EKS blog post (#4718)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/easily-create-and-manage-aws-eks-kubernetes-clusters-with-pulumi/index.md

title: Easily Create and Manage AWS EKS Kubernetes Clusters
h1: "Easily Create and Manage AWS EKS Kubernetes Clusters with Pulumi"
date: "2019-01-24"
meta_desc: "Use Pulumi to easily deploy new clusters, manage AWS resources, and deploy Kubernetes apps. See how to provision an EKS cluster with a single CLI command."
meta_image: "easy-eks.png"
authors: 
  - luke-hoban
  - levi-blackstone
tags:
  - aws
  - kubernetes
---

Provisioning, managing, and monitoring a Kubernetes cluster is

> no easy task. AWS now offers EKS to ease a lot of that burden -- but
> it's still difficult to get up and running. Pulumi's infrastructure as
> code to the rescue! We can now provision an entire EKS cluster with a
> single CLI command, thanks to [the `@pulumi/eks`
> package](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-eks). Let's see how.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no easy task. AWS now offers EKS to ease a lot of that burden -- but
it's still difficult to get up and running. Pulumi's infrastructure as
code can help! We can now provision an entire EKS cluster with a
single CLI command, thanks to [the `@pulumi/eks`
package](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-eks). Let's see how.
```

<!--more-->

> TODO: update this image?

Reviewer 2: Yeah - suggest we remove this image - it's a little awkward - it was added at some point since initial publishing, and I'm not sure it's a net benefit.  It's also unfortunately too language-specific now that we are trying to make this language neutral.

@zchase I assume the meta image will be fine for having a visual?

Reviewer: +1 for removing the image

Author: @spara I reused a meta image from a previous post. Feel free to replace if you'd prefer to use something else.

![Pulumi making EKS Easy](./easy-eks.png)

{{% notes type="info" %}}

> *Update (December 2020)*

Reviewer: Is there a way to get this to render with the ℹ and the "Update (December 2020)" on the same line? Would look a bit neater that way, but if not no worries.

Our popular EKS library was developed
back when Pulumi only supported TypeScript. Since that time, we've added support
for additional languages, and have received frequent requests to bring EKS support
to them as well. Today, we're excited to announce that EKS is available for Python,
and support for .NET and Go is coming soon!

> {{% /notes %}}

Reviewer 2: Honestly not sure we even need this comment.  Perhaps instead just at the very end an "Updated December 2020 to include Python, .NET and Go support".

Reviewer: Agreed. Having language that's less time-dependent (e.g. "Today,...") keeps the blog more evergreen.

To get started, download the free and open source

> [Pulumi SDK]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}). The SDK includes
> the CLI we'll be using below, and requires AWS credentials to access
> your AWS account and provision resources. If you already have the AWS
> CLI installed and configured, you're already all set to go. Otherwise,
> [check out the docs here]({{< relref "/docs/intro/cloud-providers/aws/setup" >}})
> to set things up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pulumi SDK]({{< relref "/docs/get-started/install" >}}), which includes 
the `pulumi` CLI we'll be using below. If you don't already
have the AWS CLI installed and configured, [set that up too]({{< relref "/docs/intro/cloud-providers/aws/setup" >}}).
You'll need AWS credentials to access your AWS account and 
provision resources.
```

From here, there are two ways to proceed:

- Provision a new cluster with a single CLI command
- Use infrastructure as code to manage clusters ... including Kubernetes resources themselves!

## Installing Amazon EKS with Pulumi

> TODO: is this still true now that we have multi-lang support?

Reviewer 2: We could choose to make four copies of this in github.com/pulumi/apps - and then put a lang chooser here.  Keep the TypeScript one called `eks` to not break things.

With the Pulumi CLI installed and configured, a single command will
provision your cluster:

    $ pulumi new https://github.com/pulumi/apps/eks

Using this template will walk you through configuring a few settings
such as the region you'd like to deploy into, the instance type, and
number of cluster nodes.

The CLI will first show you a preview of the AWS and Kubernetes
resources that will be deployed to create the cluster, before actually
performing any operation. Once you have reviewed and selected "Yes," the

> cluster will begin deploying. The terminal output will be something like
> the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster will begin deploying. The terminal output will look like this:
```

> TODO: may want to update this image

Reviewer 2: I think this particular one is probably okay - there's not much language-specific here.

Reviewer: Agreed, I think it adds value

![Pulumi-EKS-1](./eks-1.jpg)

Following these steps will provide a complete managed Amazon EKS
cluster, configured similarly to the steps outlined in the
[Amazon EKS Getting Started guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/getting-started.html),
including optional support for Amazon EBS-backed StorageClasses and
access to the Kubernetes Dashboard. Pulumi replaces all of these tedious, manual
steps with a straightforward description of your desired state, and then makes it so!

Once the deployment is complete -- it will take 10-20 minutes for
AWS to provision these resources -- you can grab the
`kubeconfig.json` needed to work with this cluster and connect to it
with [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/):

    $ pulumi stack output kubeconfig > kubeconfig.json
    $ KUBECONFIG=./kubeconfig.json kubectl get nodes

## Reusable AWS EKS component

> This Amazon EKS installer is built on top of a reusable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Amazon EKS installer we just saw is built on top of a reusable
```

[eks.Cluster](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-eks) component that is
available in Pulumi's infrastructure as code solution. In fact, the

> command above created this component with reasonable defaults. If you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command above created an instance of this component with reasonable defaults. If you
```

Not sure my terminology is correct - feel free to ignore.

```python
bucket = aws.s3.Bucket("assets")
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
var bucket = new Aws.S3.Bucket("bucket");
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
bucket, err := s3.NewBucket(ctx, "bucket", &s3.BucketArgs{})
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

Or, to install some Kubernetes applications automatically into the
Amazon EKS cluster (such as WordPress), add them using the Pulumi
Kubernetes provider pointing at the newly provisioned EKS cluster:

{{< chooser language "typescript,python,csharp,go" >}}

{{% choosable language typescript %}}

```typescript
const wordpress = new k8s.helm.v3.Chart("wpdev", {
  version: "9.6.0",
  chart: "wordpress",
  fetchOpts: {
    repo: "https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami",
  },
}, { providers: { kubernetes: cluster.provider }});
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language python %}}

```python
nginx_ingress = Chart(
    "wpdev",
    ChartOpts(
        chart="wordpress",
        version="9.6.0",
        fetch_opts=FetchOpts(
            repo="https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami",
        ),
    ),
  opts=ResourceOptions(provider=cluster.provider),

> )

Reviewer 2: Formatting looks a little off (two different indentation levels).

```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
var nginx = new Chart("wpdev", new ChartArgs
{
    Chart = "wordpress",
    Version = "9.6.0",
    FetchOptions = new ChartFetchArgs
    {
        Repo = "https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami"
    }
}, new CustomResourceOptions
{
    Provider = cluster.Provider,
});
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language go %}}

```go
_, err := helm.NewChart(ctx, "wpdev", helm.ChartArgs{
            Chart:   pulumi.String("wordpress"),
            Version: pulumi.String("9.6.0"),
            FetchArgs: helm.FetchArgs{
                repo: pulumi.String("https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami"),
            },

>         }, pulumi.Provider(cluster.Provider))

Reviewer 2: Looks like formatting is off a bit here.

```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{< /chooser >}}

Pulumi makes it possible to define the cluster, AWS resources, and
Kubernetes objects needed to bootstrap your entire Kubernetes
environment, all in one place. They can then be versioned together and
exact replicas of the environment can be created independently
for operations such as testing or disaster recovery.

As usual, by expressing these resources in code instead of in YAML, you

> get many software engineering benefits, such as improved

Reviewer: ```suggestion
get many software engineering benefits: improved
```

> tooling, ability to refactor using your favorite IDE, the ability to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tooling, the ability to refactor using your favorite IDE, the ability to
```
